Possible Future Coursework
 Project Briefs
https://tinyurl.com/lccsprojects 

Choose one of the three coursework ideas below and work an idea through to prototype. Given that this is a Raspberry Pi workshop, now would be a great opportunity to try use your Raspberry Pi, Camera and other sensors available to build a prototype while there are peers and mentors close by! Of course these don’t have to be done with a Raspberry Pi and it’s good to think about how a Micro Bit might be used to do these differently.


Coursework 1: Sensors/Camera Tracking Physical Performance

“The pandemic has changed our habits of physical activity and exercise, some for better, some for worse. 

Basic: Create an artefact using an embedded system that helps track or analyse exercise using digital or analogue sensors. 

Advanced: The program should use statistics to make recommendations based on the analysis of the data”.

(ALT2 Graphs /ALT4 Sensors) 


-Ideas: Camera looking at form in golf/tennis, colour tracking of a ball, calculation of speed of ball or speed of athlete speed from camera colour track or light sensors/contact sensors.






Coursework 2: Physical and statistical simulations

“By recording data such as hits, misses and other statistics, the physical performance of a sportsperson can be statistically simulated and predictions made about their likely future performance. 

Basic: Create a model that can predict one or more probable outcomes for a system in a sport or game. The outcome for this simulation should be displayed on a simple website. 

Advanced: Add controls to parameters of the simulation to be changed and data to show the likelihood of a given outcome.

 (ALT3 Modelling & Simulation/ALT2 Graphs) 



Ideas: Record sports data eg. over, short, goal , create histogram of outcomes and use weighted random choice/numbers to mimic the performance in python.





Microsoft’s “ClusterDuck” floating mesh network for floods

Coursework 3: Communication systems

In an emergency situation where traditional phone or internet communication has suffered an outage, novel back-up ways of communication can prove vital.

Basic: Create using an embedded system a novel way of communication that does not use existing telecommunications networks or infrastructure. A user should be able to edit the contents of their message and the receiver should be able to reply.

Create a website with instructions for operating your communication system. 

Advanced: Create a way of encoding messages with an extra layer of security. Your code  should have a key that allows anyone with it to decode your message.

-Ideas: System of LED lights, Buzzers tapping a code like tap or Morse code




Famous uses of morse code:





Or make up your own!
Other topical issues to make your own coursework brief: “Misinformation”, “World Security”, “Navigation/self driving”, “Space Science and extreme weather”

